PEM 9.5 - Release branch (#5216)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pem/9/pem_rel_notes/950_rel_notes.mdx

---
title: "Postgres Enterprise Manager 9.5.0 release notes"
navTitle: Version 9.5.0
---

Released: 09 Feb 2024

New features, enhancements, bug fixes, and other changes in PEM 9.5.0 include:

| Type         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Enhancement  | Added `EmailGroup` and `EmailGroupID` in webhook payload.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

> | Enhancement  | Added a new alert template to validate the password expiry for the users specific to EDB Postgres Advanced Server. Also modified the alert template `A user expired in N days` to `Number of users expiring in N days` that checks the number of users getting exprired. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Enhancement  | Added a new alert template to validate password expiry for users in EDB Postgres Advanced Server. Also modified the alert template `A user expired in N days` to `Number of users expiring in N days` that checks the number of users expiring.

!!! Note
Alerts configured against the outgoing alert template `A user expired in N days` will need to be recreated against the new template.
!!! |
```

| Enhancement  | Added a button on the Manage Probes window that resets the probe configurations to default.                                                                                                                                                                              |

> | Enhancement  | Added a `Cleared Alert` button in notifications, to mute the cleared alerts. This enhancement provides the flexibility to avoid getting notifications for the cleared alerts.                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Enhancement  | Added a `Cleared Alert` button in notifications. This gives users the flexibility to disable notifications for cleared alerts while still receiving notifications when alerts occur.                                                                                            |
```

> | Enhancement  | You can now create your own web server certificates as EDB details are no longer added to the web server certificates generated by PEM.                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Enhancement  | You can now provide your own details for web server certificates. EDB details are no longer added to the web server certificates generated by PEM. 

!!! Note
If you are using a certificate generated by PEM, you will be required to provide updated details when updating to PEM 9.5.0 and a new certificate will be generated using these details. This change ensures PEM installations comply with security best practice of including details of the organization responsible for the web server on its certificate.
!!!
|
```

| Enhancement  | Added a capability to identify the user who changed the blackout status, date, and time.                                                                                                                                                                                 |

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed an issue where the deleted custom probe was still visible in probe dependency tab of Alert Templates.                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed an issue where a deleted custom probe was still visible in the 'probe dependency' tab of Alert Templates.                                                                                                                                                              |
```

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed the missing permission issue by granting the pem_agent user permission to `custom_email_template` table.                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed a 'missing permission' issue by granting the `pem_agent` user permission to `custom_email_template` table.                                                                                                                                                           |
```

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | Excluded 0 sized tables from PEM alert template `largest index by table-size percentage`. Also added the detailed SQL statement for this template.                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Excluded  zero-sized tables from PEM alert template `largest index by table-size percentage`. Also added a detailed SQL statement for this template.                                                                                                                       |
```

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | You can now use `v11` as the REST endpoint from the cli.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed an issue whereby the CLI attempted to call an obsolete version of the PEM API, resulting in commands failing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
```

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | Log in user must have appropriate roles to access `Failover Manager Utilities` and `Database server service management`.                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: This statement doesn't tell me what we changed. @edbshubham could you clarify and suggest some wording?

Reviewer: The above comment pertains to line 22.

Reviewer 2: The user should be a pem_user and should be a member of pem_manage_efm role to access EFM features.
And to start/stop the database service from PEM GUI user should be member of pem_server_service_manager role.

---
title: "Postgres Enterprise Manager 9.5.0 release notes"
navTitle: Version 9.5.0
---

Released: 09 Feb 2024

New features, enhancements, bug fixes, and other changes in PEM 9.5.0 include:

| Type         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Enhancement  | Added `EmailGroup` and `EmailGroupID` in webhook payload.                                                                                                                                                                                           |

> | Enhancement  | Added a new alert template to validate password expiry for users in EDB Postgres Advanced Server. Also modified the alert template `A user expired in N days` to `Number of users expiring in N days` that checks the number of users expiring.[^*] |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Enhancement  | Added an alert template to validate password expiry for users in EDB Postgres Advanced Server. Also modified the alert template `A user expired in N days` to `Number of users expiring in N days` that checks the number of users expiring.[^*] |
```

> | Enhancement  | Added a button on the Manage Probes window that resets the probe configurations to default.                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Enhancement  | Added a button on the Manage Probes window that resets the probe configurations to the defaults.                                                                                                                                                         |
```

> | Enhancement  | Added a `Cleared Alert` button in notifications. This gives users the flexibility to disable notifications for cleared alerts while still receiving notifications when alerts occur.                                                                |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Enhancement  | Added a **Cleared Alert** button in notifications. This gives you the flexibility to disable notifications for cleared alerts while still receiving notifications when alerts occur.                                                                |
```

> | Enhancement  | You can now create your own web server certificates as EDB details are no longer added to the web server certificates generated by PEM.                                                                                                             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Enhancement  | You can now create your own web server certificates, as EDB details are no longer added to the web server certificates generated by PEM.                                                                                                             |
```

| Enhancement  | Added a capability to identify the user who changed the blackout status, date, and time.                                                                                                                                                            |

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed an issue where the deleted custom probe was still visible in probe dependency tab of Alert Templates.                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed an issue where the deleted custom probe was still visible in the **Probe Dependency** tab of Alert Templates.                                                                                                                                         |
```

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed the missing permission issue by granting the pem_agent user permission to `custom_email_template` table.                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed the missing permission issue by granting the pem_agent user permission to the `custom_email_template` table.                                                                                                                                      |
```

| Bug&nbsp;fix | You can now use `v11` as the REST endpoint from the cli.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Log in user must have appropriate roles to access `Failover Manager Utilities` and `Database server service management`.                                                                                                                            |
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Added `application_name` column in the `session_info` probe.                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed the `too few arguments` exception for the webhooks.                                                                                                                                                                                           |

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | Resolved the issue where the `User` column displayed the current username logged into the PEM GUI in the chart display of pg_hba.conf file. Now it displays the respective usernames in the pg_hba.conf file.                                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Resolved the issue where the User column displayed the current username logged into the PEM user interface in the chart display of the `pg_hba.conf` file. Now it displays the respective usernames in the `pg_hba.conf` file.                                       |
```

> | Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed an `Dashboard info not found` error while opening the dashboards in GUI.                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Bug&nbsp;fix | Fixed a `Dashboard info not found` error while opening the dashboards in the user interface.                                                                                                                                                                      |
```
